forms are used to collect user's data such as name,email,phone_number etc..,
Eg: login, registration, feedback,contact,admission,
attendance form, messages,subscribe,search, forgot password etc..,

To take user's data we can use a self closing element named
'input'
Every input will have following attributes:
  -- type: it defines the type of input it can take
  -- placeholder: Dummy text to hold the place until actual value comes
  -- id : used to identify the input uniquely
  -- name : name is the variable by which value is sent to server
Label Tag: label is used to select certain elements and it needed to be connected with input's id (for attribute)
form tag also have attributes such as 
  -- action: contains the path of server(where the form to be submitted)
  -- method: it defines the way to send the values
       -- GET: get shows all the values in  URL
       -- POST: post will not show the values in the URL
       
create a simple login form using HTML(email,password)



------------Input Types:- THere arw different types of inputs.----------------

1. Text : Text is used for alphanumerical(mixture of) inputs.
2. Email : Email is used ti email inputs.
3. Password: Password is used for secret keys,pins,password etc..,
4. url : url is used to input links og http/https.
5. Number : Number is used to input the only numeric values.
6. date : date is used to input date using default calender.
7. time : time is input time using default timer.
8 datetime -local : it is used to input date and time.
9. week : it is used to input week of the year.
10. month : it is used to input the month of the year.
11. file : files is used to upload certain files.
12. hidden : hidden is used to hide the input.
13. button : button is used to includes button of different variation.
    submit : submit is used to submit the form.
    reset : reset is used to reset the form.

14. color : color is used to select specific colors.
15. range : range is used to get range slider.



Radio buttons : radio buttons are used to select only one out of the choices.
In radio buttons, all same purpose radio buttons should have same name.

<input type="radio" name="answer" value="yes"

<input type="radio" name="answer" value="no"

Checkboxes : checkboxes are used to select one more values.
all names of same name purpose checkboxes should be same.


dropdowns: dropdowns is used to  select one or more values.
it uses 'select' tag where each 'option' tag.

<select name= "" id= "">
<option value="">option1</option>
</select>

To group multiple options , you can use optgroup with a label value.


Form validations :
                  Form validations are the conditions that are applied to inputs to verify the value received by input
form validations:
   form validations are the conditions that are applied to inputs to verify the value receieved by input

Required: it is used to make field entry mandatory
Readonly: it is used to make input  only read but not write
disabled: it will make the input disabled
minlength: it will take minimum number of charcter
maxlength: it will take maximum number of charcter
min: it will take minimum value
max: it will take maximum value
pattern:
[A-Z]{3,} -- RAJU